[CNSMR-2090] Conducting a Technical Interview. (#207)
Babylonpartners/ios-playbook: Interview/ConductingATechnicalInterview.md

> Outline:

Reviewer: Probably not needed(?)

Author: Just a market that it is an outline and not a draft document.

How to Conduct a Technical Interview
====================================

### Remember what You Want to Achieve
Best possible outcome from an interview is a new hire who makes great contributions to your organisation, your team and thrives as a member in your team. In this section I will try to say something about the mindset required to interview a candidate successfully.

### Be prepared
To not prepare for an interview is simply rude. How to best prepare does, however, depend on the kind of interview.

### Make the Candidate Feel Welcome
Discuss what we can do to make a probably nervous candidate feel welcome and respected.

### Look for what the Candidate can bring

> Diverse teams are well known to be more productive but at the same time a new hire should enough about the technology we use for their intended level. How can one think about structuring an interview to learn something about what the candidate brings that we don't have already while not forgetting to ask about essential skills.

Reviewer: > new hire should enough about

Is verb missing here? Maybe "should know enough" ?

> How can one think about structuring an interview to learn something about what the candidate brings that we don't have already while not forgetting to ask about essential skills.

I couldn't understand this English sentence... Can you simplify?

Author: I will try to simplify.

Reviewer 2: I know it's something that is hard to assess with just a technical interview, but it should still be also one of the goals of an interview to understand how a Candidate can _grow_ and how open and fast they can learn new stuff and adapt. Someone that doesn't know about one of our tech/framework/architecture/patterns (e.g. RxFeedback or similar) but is a fast learner is also something interesting in a Candidate.

Reviewer: @zzcgumn https://github.com/Babylonpartners/ios-playbook/pull/207#issuecomment-518736189

> The complicated thing about hiring a candidate with a great deal of experience with technologies and processes that we currently don't use is that this person is unlikely to also be an expert in the technologies we do use.

I still find this English sentence too long and hard to understand...
I believe the final documentation can be simplified even more.

For example, using "but" in the very first sentence is fading this entire section's purpose.
So, we want to split the explanation in the following way:

```suggestion
Diverse teams are well known to be more productive.
So, during the interview, blah blah...

(Below is Optional)
But at the same time, a new hire should know enough about the technology we use. 
So, blah blah... 
```

###  Let the Candidate have the Floor
- It is not your interview
- It is not your chance to take a step forward in your career

> - Showing off your skills to a candidate is never going to earn you a pay rise or promotion. Save your boasting for your next one-to-one with your line manager.

Reviewer 3: imo this sounds too aggressive, can we rephrase it? also these three items can be merged into one.

```
- be humble and let the candidate show their best rather than showing yours
```

Author: @ilyapuchka In this outline I am hoping to get feedback on which topics to discuss. Of course everyone will also be allowed to have an input on formulations in the final text. That said, I have noticed your point and will try to use less aggressive language in the article.

Reviewer 4: This is just the outline, not the actual article.

Reviewer 3: 👍

### Think about Our Brand

> You are representing Babylon when conducting an interview. Here I want to discuss what we can do to make sure that a candidate always leaves with a positive impression of Babylon.

Reviewer 2: 👍  💯 
I like this section: It's often forgotten when conducting interviews that this is a two-sided thing. The Candidate has to demonstrate that they're fit to join the team, but we as a team also have to show them that Babylon is a good team and environment that they'll like 🙂

Outline:

How to Conduct a Technical Interview
====================================

### Remember what You Want to Achieve
Best possible outcome from an interview is a new hire who makes great contributions to your organisation, your team and thrives as a member in your team. In this section I will try to say something about the mindset required to interview a candidate successfully.

### Be prepared
To not prepare for an interview is simply rude. How to best prepare does, however, depend on the kind of interview.

### Make the Candidate Feel Welcome
Discuss what we can do to make a probably nervous candidate feel welcome and respected.

### Look for what the Candidate can bring

> Diverse teams are well known to be more productive so when interviewing we are interested to learn about experiences and knowledge that we currently don't have in the team. At the same time we need new hires to be able to work with the technology we are using. Realistically, candidates who bring in a wealth of knowledge about technology we are not using will not also be experts in the technology. How can we think about structuring an interview with these somewhat conflicting goals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Diverse teams are well known to be more productive, so when interviewing, we want to hear about their experiences and knowledge that we don't have in the team. 

But at the same time, we need new hires to be able to work with existing technology we are using. Realistically, candidates who bring in a wealth of knowledge about new technology only will NOT be considered as experts in our technology.

(TODO: Conclusion comes here. How do we actually want to measure these 2 different skills?
 Are both important? Or new/existing skills is more important than the other? 
 This needs to be documented, otherwise "But at the same time ..." paragraph will not be meaningful)
```

TODO needs to be answered, or just remove TODO and 2nd paragraph to make the whole section as simple as 1st paragraph only.

> but at the same time a new hire should enough about the technology we use for their intended level. How can one think about structuring an interview to learn something about what the candidate brings that we don't have already while not forgetting to ask about essential skills.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Probably forgot to delete?
